So word is successful Let's now split this component up into subcomponents together.
Four days of first of all create components in the components folder one will be the place in Port component.
Let's add a place in Port touchiest Falder and one will be the Les's list component.
So let's add a place list chase folder.
Let's start with the place input.
Now the place input will of course handle user input through text input.
We got two options for creating this component.
Now we can create a CLOS based component where we handle two were binding inside of that component so
that we still handle the important state in the app component.
The place is aere buddy.
You will hide related state what the user entered is managed in the subcomponent.
Alternatively you handle both states and the app component and pass it and receive it with props to
and from last input.
Now I would go for the approach where place input is a class based component and we handle the user
input there.
So let's import react and component pulled out as a separate named import from react.
And there are no trade clause which name lays input which extends component and which I then export
as the default of this fall.
Just like you do it in a web based re-act app.
So that's my place input.
Now the goal is to bring over the relevant GSX code into the render functional place and put.
And of course managed the relevant state here.
Now for this let's go back to Yapp component.
Let's start with the J is X code.
We're talking about this the container the input container.
Let's catgut out of the app component and add it to place inputs render function to the return statement
there to be precise.
Keep in mind that you of course need to have a wrapping element like this view just like in web based
re-act apps though you can use that work arounds reacts 16 office you like auxiliary components.
So we get this view here.
We should also bring the styling into the component.
So in our app component we're talking about the input container place and put in place button styles.
Let's cut them from the stylesheet here.
And let's go over to last input and create a new constant styles in here where we use Stahl's she'd
create and pass that to the object we passed to create.
So now we have these styles and here and therefore our GSX code where we access these styles on the
styles constant will still work.
Now for it to work we also need to import stylesheet and we need to import the new button and text and
put all these things are of course imported from re-act native.
So let's import them from there.
That's at the airport to read native.
And then there let's import new text and put Latin and style sheet.
The things we're using in this component here with that we got a nice place in what but we need to handle
the state when the user types and the value we bind to the text input.
So back to the app component let's copy the place name changed handler and state they've finished definition
there.
And let's head over to place input and there I now want to add both add to state remove the places array
though and all that place name changed handler no bouffe already is hooked up to the exact same names.
So as long as you didn't change the names in the state or of the handler you're copied J as X code should
still work.
Now we also need to make sure that when we click the button we actually do pass that information to
whichever components implements plate's input.
So for this all change deeper up.
I target on press there.
I will fire on plays at it for example you can name this for all your whatever you want.
Now when using plays it but you just have to add on Place at it and triggers some handlers some method.
When this occurs and you will receive Well what but now you would receive the default press event which
might hold interesting formation but not the one we need.
So instead what I want to do here is I'll use an inline arrow function and it will instead emit this
state last name here.
So the latest place name we have will be admitted up on a click on this button.
The alternative and you're able reverse all of that and go back to place mid handler.
The alternative is to also copy the plays submit handler from our app component added to lace and put
below the place name changed handler still check if the place name is valid and then not set the stage
thereafter but instead execute this prompts.
Now maybe on Place at it whichever name you want to use and pass this state police name on this is maybe
the more elegant solution because it allows you to check the validity of the name inside the place and
put component which might be the place where it makes more sense logically.
So on place added the property which will be fired on our place input component whenever we entered
a valid place and hit that button that allows us to now implement to place input component.
Let's go back to the app component and let's import our newly created component there.
It's called place in pote and we ordered from source components place input place and put like this.
Let's now use place in Port here where we previously had our place in Port area like this can be a self-closing
component.
And now there we need to hook up on Les's Adut or whichever property name you chose here in your place
and put a component on place added will give us the name of the place.
So it is here that I want to trigger some method which actually adds displays to our places array.
Now we already get such a method.
The place submit handler let's name it place added handler to be in line with the proper name and in
there we no longer need to check if the place misspell it.
We know that it will be.
Instead we need to be able to receive the last name as an argument here because we will get it by our
place and put component and that we still set the state and we'll will keep the old approach of doing
that.
But we concat the place name we receive as an argument of course we can now get rid of the place name
changed Taylor because we no longer handle data component and of the place name here in our state.
Now we get to place input.
Implement that.
Now to make this work let's take place at at händler and make sure that this is the method which is
executed on the place at event here on our custom component.
Once you do it this save all the falls and go back to your application.
Reload it and get an error cannot find variable components might have a typo in place input.
I do.
We should of course extend component here not components so let's save this and then it should reload.
If it doesn't do it manually.
And now let's try this again.
So you're on the right tonight.
I guess it did a full reload which is why my old place are gone.
But adding them again seems to work nice.
Saw a custom input component works and as you see from a styling perspective there is no difference.
This still all works just nice.
We do it like this.
It works ask before but we got a leaner app component.
Now the same for the list item.
This can be a functional add.
The place list excuse me this can be a functional component.
We don't need to manage any state in here so place list will just receive some props and then render
some j as X. so therefore let's import re-act from react to be able to write J as X will also need some
components from re-act native for sure.
So let's add these import to and then export this as a default place list.
Let's now go back to the app component and copy that view here which renders our list.
And let's head over to the place list.
I will actually use a real function body with curly braces there and the return statement not to use
the shortcut.
I want to render my view and this of course uses places output which is my array of list items.
So let's go back to the component there.
Here we create this place output constant.
Let's cut it from the render function the app component and let's add it to the place list in front
of the return statement.
So that displaces output concept can now be output here.
For that we now need to import our a custom list item component.
And of course the view component from re-act native because we're using that here too.
So let's add both imports we got that from the view already.
Let's now import list items from let's go up one level into the list item folder and the list item file
and we can therefore remove that import from the app component.
We no longer need that there.
Now styling Wise I want to make sure that my placeless container still receives the list container styling.
So will all the imports style sheet in my place list component then create a new constant Stahl's your
style sheet.
Create and copy over the list container style from my app component into this stalls here hear so that
my J is X code where I refer to it works again and gives this list to correct Stolley.
Now last but not least we need to be able to receive deep places why up props for that.
This state places needs to be replaced with this crop's places and that this keyword is removed at shust
proper place because we got props here.
So now we just expect to get a place of sprawl on our custom component.
Let's use our custom component back in the app component we can import it.
So let's import place a list from an out source folder components place list and their place list.
Let's use it in our is X code here.
Place list self-closing element and we need to pass a places property to it if you remember because
we got it here on our prop's the last prop we pass.
Of course referring to does state license.
And now we get a nice approach where Arap important is to container managing the state.
And then we use our custom components to pass the state down there.
We have a very clean app component therefore And if we have a look at our GSX code we only use the you
from Riak native and stylesheet so we can remove the text import.
We can also remove text input and button with that save all these faults make sure all files were saved.
And now if you reload both apps really ensured that we have the latest code running.
Let's try this again.
Let's output Munich here on Android.
And let's maybe add Mumbai and let's do the same here.
Here maybe with San Francisco and their ofter let's output New York.
So we now got a working input analyst and we see how we can work with custom components and react native
components in a re-act native Vare.
We made great progress.
Let's now see what else we can do here.